# breannaparker630final
My main quest in this project is to better understand the stock market and to come up with a good model to help predict what might happen in the future with a specific stock. This is a time series dataset which I have never tried before, so I need to learn how to
properly use a model for this dataset. The data that is being used is older so it’s not good for current predictions but it should be easy to gather new data and use the same model for future predictions. It should also be flexible so that you can input any dataset from any stock that you are interested in learning more about. The data has over 4000 rows but only 7 columns (Date, Open cost, High cost, Low cost, Close cost, Adjusted Close Cost, and Volume). Even with limited columns, this is still plenty of data to get an accurate prediction on.

I’m using an LSTM model, also called a Long Short Term Memory model. LSTM works by using previous information and remembering it to process the current input. It does this by utilizing feedback connections to process entire sequences of data. I’m combining LSTM with an RSI for the most accurate model. I had originally only tried using LSTM, which only gave an r2 value and accuracy of about 60%. This new combined model has an accuracy of over 99%. The relative strength index (RSI) is a momentum indicator used in technical analysis that measures the magnitude of recent price changes to evaluate overbought or oversold conditions in the price of a stock or other asset (Dundas, 2022). Exponential moving averages (EMAs) respond more quickly to recent price changes and can help with the accuracy of the models.
Below we can see the code that I used to calculate the RSI. I used a 14 day average window because this is just the default. Since it was over the course of several years, I didn’t think it would cause any issues. If the stock was only over a few months though, I might use a shorter window. We calculate the RSI by if a close price is higher or lower than the previous close and use this to calculate the moving average. 

Next I checked the accuracy of this model. I did this by running the R-2 and the RMSE for the train and test datasets. For the RMSE, the lower the number the better. Here we see 15 and 30 rounded respectively. This is based on a total dependent variable of over 3000 so these are very good numbers. Next is the r-2. This number goes from 0 to 100 and the closer to 100 the more accurate. As both values are above 99%, these are very good numbers and indicate a very accurate model. 